---
layout: post
title: "Week 2 - Code of Conduct"
---

## Necessity for Code of Conduct: Go vs Eclipse

Upon reviewing multiple projects, I've noticed that many projects' Code of Conduct documentation is an adaptation of the Contributor Covenant, which provides a general outline of appropriate behavior in the open source environment. While the document may be trivial, as most people would not go out of their way to refer to it, its inclusion is necessary for when violations occur. The respective organization has the responsibility to provide a safe environment. 

[Go's Code of Conduct](https://go.dev/conduct), in particular, has an extensive section on conflict resolution:

> We do not believe that all conflict is bad; healthy debate and disagreement often yield positive results. However, it is never okay to be disrespectful or to engage in behavior that violates the project’s code of conduct...

Further down is an explanation of what actions users can take to resolve such conflict, and where they should be directed to should the issues escalate. Instructions like these are especially important in a space that promotes intellectual freedom, as discussion can quickly devolve to inflammatory remarks with just a single message. 

Another notable mention is that the Go's language is more personable and acknowledges the nuances in human interactions:
  
* "Remember that people have varying communication styles and that not everyone is using their native language. (Meaning and tone can be lost in translation.)"
* "Remember that sometimes it is best to refrain entirely from commenting."
* "Interpret the arguments of others in good faith, do not seek to disagree."
* "Avoid microaggressions (brief and commonplace verbal, behavioral and environmental indignities that communicate hostile, derogatory or negative slights and insults to a person or group)." 

And finally, to wrap these up: 

> People are complicated. You should expect to be misunderstood and to misunderstand others; when this inevitably occurs, resist the urge to be defensive or assign blame. Try not to take offense where no offense was intended. Give people the benefit of the doubt. Even if the intent was to provoke, do not rise to it. It is the responsibility of all parties to de-escalate conflict when it arises.

Upon reading all this, I have the impression that the authority figures in Go would be more understanding and actually perform "moderation duties," in which they are also proactive members in the community. 

[Eclipse](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php)'s documentation, on the other hand, does not deviate far from the original source. Its format is standard, and does not introduce new policies. I can't help but instantly scroll and glance over the documentation, as there is nothing interesting to point out other than the fact that it states the version... If I were to report violations and use the documentation as a reference, I would only be able to use blanket statements and hope that my circumstance falls under a category. 

---

## Sugar Labs

When analyzing Sugar Lab's documentation, I had to keep in mind that the organization's target audience is children. To "release" children into the world of open source sounds daunting; the need for detailed supervision is essential. Fortunately, it seems to be an isolated environment for Sugar Labs users. 

With regards to the Code of Conduct, I do not have to necessarily read the content below the headers, as the headers are self-explanatory compared to the all-encompassing categories from the aforementioned organizations. To compare: 

| Go/Eclipse            | Sugar Labs                            | 
| -------------         |:-------------:                        | 
| Our Pledge            | Be considerate                        | 
| Our Standards         | Be respectful                         |
| Our Responsibilites   | Be collaborative                      | 
| Scope                 | Be flexible                           | 
|                       | When you disagree, consult others     | 
|                       | When you are unsure, ask for help     | 
|                       | Step down considerably                |

Perhaps a table wasn't the best way to organize the information, but as shown, Sugar Lab has conveyed its most important expectations instantly. Children would probably rather spend their time on the actual software than reading documentation, so kudos to them for this format.


---

## [Tachiyomi's Code of Conduct](https://github.com/tachiyomiorg/tachiyomi/blob/master/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) 

Tachiyomi is a manga reader that I use in my daily life. I did not expect it to have a Code of Conduct, as I scoured some other projects that I use frequently and did not find documentation. In addition to the attribution to the Contributor Convenant, Tachiyomi also references [Mozilla's code of conduct enforcement ladder](https://github.com/mozilla/inclusion). There is a large emphasis on enforcement which includes: 

1. Correction 
2. Warning 
3. Temporary Ban
4. Permanent Ban

I believe this transparency is necessary, as it provides clear expectations for the community and punishes violations accordingly. By stating these consequences, users who wish to remain in the community will be kept in check, and those who do not comply will be removed according to these standards.

---

## Extension Activity Reflection

Working on some simple Firefox extensions was fun! I enjoyed seeing the products (as I would with anything that works... )

(´；ω；`)

While we were following guides, I tried my best to understand the code with the limited time we had. Copying and pasting code isn't quite the same as typing it myself for learning purposes,  but I think I understand the general anatomy of how an extension is created. 

My team is still in the process of deciding on a potential extension to work on, but that's for the next week! 




