---
layout: post
title: "Week 7 - The Cathedral and the Bazaar & Open Source in Global Affairs"
---

## [The Cathedral and the Bazaar](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/index.html)

Not a Linux fanatic, so I won't provide much insight on the technicalities. To be honest, I'm not quite sure why the comparison to Cathedral-building were made, other than the fact that it requires meticulous effort that Eric views as wizardry. I can speak for some of the quotes that were mentioned: 

> Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse).

At this stage in my academic and professional career, I have an idea of what to write when I'm presented with a problem. However, I believe that a shortcoming of mine is committing to one solution. In class, we mentioned that we are protective of our code, and I can see its validity. Too often have I thought of a solution to the point where I should commit to it fully, when instead, there may be other options to explore, which ties into another point that Eric made: 

> Given a large enough beta-tester and co-developer base, almost every problem will be characterized quickly and the fix obvious to someone.

Which reminds me of the importance of having someone peer-review work in any field. Everyone has a different intuition and amount of experience, so what could take a long time for me to solve, could take moments for someone else. The beauty of open-source is that this knowledge is public, triggering a ripple effect where more people are aware of the solution, ultimately making the problem much smaller than what it originally was. 

## Open Source in the Current State of Global Affairs

Keeping these points in mind, I very much hope that we can see more progress with regards to Open Source Intelligence, given the current state of global affairs. One GitHub user writes in response to someone's proposal to : 

> It's a very bad idea, and GitHub are smarter than that (not that I speak for them).
>
> Geo-blocking a whole country makes it harder for those young Russians that are already communicating with the rest of the world on a regular basis, and most likely to have a more globalist view and not being Putin supporters.
>
>It would also hurt the community, and the trust of the repository maintainers (who might migrate from GitHub).
>
>It makes no sense to lock out contributors from your repository. How would that help Ukraine?

[link to the GitHub thread](https://github.com/github/feedback/discussions/12042#discussioncomment-2253670)

Last week in class, we discussed how open-source can serve as an introduction to tech for young children. Isolating an entire country's access to resources would only foster a narrow world view. 

## My Future Contributions 

I'm interested in a lot of fields, and use a lot of open-source applications daily, but I am still intimidated by what I can really contribute. Getting a pull request approved for code may be difficult, as I'm already currently working on a codebase, so another project on top of this might be difficult! But, there are so many other ways to contribute, so I will probably explore those options.




