---
layout: post
title: "Week 4 - Browser Extension Reflection"
---

## slap-a-fetti team 

Our group originally had some difficulties deciding on an extension, as we were all new to extension-making and did not have the confidence to code certain features: maintain a database for users to keep their notes, or integrate the face-detection AI so that a mustache could be slapped on someone's face. Eventually, I proposed the current extension, which we underestimated the difficulty of -- at least to get it to work as intended. My groupmates seemed enthusiastic about the idea, so we committed to it! 

Our main method of communication was through our private channel, as well as a collaborative document where we outlined the content for our repository's documentation. With regards to our individual contribution, I worked on integrating the confetti script. We had some obstacles, as the original script I used worked as intended 2% of the time. Another groupmate had the confetti as a popup. We were very confused. 

I'm really grateful to both of my teammates for being so communicative and accomodating to each others' schedules, and we had some laughs in our private channel ♥(ˆ⌣ˆԅ)

---

## Realizations 

The browser extension activity really challenged how I would tackle a new task that would be presented for others. Usually, the work I do is only available for my professors and graders, so having a functional product that we can also be passionate about were important for the success of the demonstration. To be blunt, I was throwing code in the `manifest.json`, hoping that something would work. My ability to read and follow documentation were also challenged and put into practice (thank you, Joanna, for the reading-documentation labs back in Data Structures) (*≧∀≦*)

I like to start my work early, in case there are hiccups along the way. I think this alleviated a lot of stress for our team, as all of us were unsure as to how we should go about coding the extension. We all have work besides the extension, so having a working product prior to the deadline gave us room for modifications. 

---

## Comments for other presentations

I noticed that everyone else actually worked with the elements on the webpage, and also struggled to materialize their ideas -- which was reassuring! Meanwhile, we were trying to inject a script, and didn't actually write much JavaScript (other than working on `manifest.json`).

Some projects I found notable are [Less Ugly Brightspace](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/less-ugly-brightspace), [YouTubeEX](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/YouTubeEX) & [Focusify](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/Focusify), [Study Timer](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/study-timer), and [searchionary](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/searchionary). 

My groupmates and I really like the concept of Less Ugly Brightspace, as it embodies the principles of open-source. We thought that the project is great for the student community to build upon. 

I found YouTubeEX and Focusify to be impressive in terms of working directly with JavaScript. Although I have some experience with JavaScript, I would not have thought of something as simple as hiding elements as my starter extension. It's always interesting to see how others approach this activity! The same applies with Study Timer, especially due to its functionality. There seems to be DOM manipulation involved, which is one of my weakest topics in a course that I took last semester.

Lastly, searchionary is similar to an extension that I actually use, but for Chinese and Japanese! It's definitely an extension that provides convenience for language-learners. The extensions that I use are for Chrome: [Zhongwen](https://github.com/cschiller/zhongwen) and [rikaikun](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/rikaikun/jipdnfibhldikgcjhfnomkfpcebammhp). 

