---
layout: post
title: "Week 11 - Business Models & Open Library"
---

## Business Models (cont.)

In addition to the solidification of open source's prevalence in various industries, I also found [this talk](https://youtu.be/lYjVwzd7Xrs) with Dave Neary, Nithya Ruff, and Gil Yehuda to be insightful. Gil, in particular, brought up the point that organizations adopting open source projects should account for the "real costs" of managing software overtime. Nithya mentioned that they should not solely focus on the initial acquisition costs; even if the software is free, in the long term, there are responsibilities to having ownership. To quote Gil: 

> Are we going to get three weeks worth of check later back from the community? If so, then we offset the costs [...]  The static nature of software doesn't adequately capture what the real cost of managing software is.

I can relate to these words, as I have been recently testing the feasibility of integrating an open source project to an existing one. While there are features that can enhance it, my superior is always concerned with sustainability: would the cost of maintaining this project outweigh its benefits? How secure are the technologies being used? Sometimes, things don't work out, which is then articulated to the stakeholders. We cannot always accept requests that may not be fulfilled after much experimentation. 

## Open Library Progress

I will make a pull request to the original repository very soon! After having several of our issues claimed by other students, my groupmates and I had to ensure that we had our own issues to work on. Fortunately, we have a very capable project leader who accomodated to our needs, and swiftly assigned us work relevant to our interests. I was assigned to [this issue](https://github.com/internetarchive/openlibrary/issues/6431), where there is a minor bug involving CSS. As an aspiring front-end/web developer/UX Designer, I really appreciated being able to make such contributions in such a large codebase. Thanks to the reassurance of the project leaders and my groupmates, I was able to follow Open Library's workflow. [Here is the branch that will soon be reviewed.](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/openlibrary/tree/6431/bug/bookpage-navbar-overflow-mobile)





