---
layout: post
title: "Week 10 - Business Models & Open Library"
---

## Free and Open Source Business Models 

Apart from the various lectures we've had on the business-side of open source, I found this line from [Gitlab's interview](https://youtu.be/jk_DNX8LGuM) striking: 

> unintuitive to be transparent 

which was mentioned by Sid Sijbrandij, CEO of Gitlab. He said that although issues may be open to the public, there is the habit of defaulting them as "closed," which I interpret as issues that are resolved mainly by people within the organization. This is not surprising, as people within the organization would know their codebase better than those outside. This experience resonates with my group's experience working with Open Library. 

## Open Library 

For the past two weeks, we were in limbo waiting for responses from members of Open Library. It was not until we bothered one of the leads that we were able to have a substantial conversation with them. He asked us: 

1. Whether we wanted to contribute independently or as a group
2. The types of issues we would like to work on 
3. Specific tech that we want to learn 

He also provided us with an hour-long video dedicated to outlining a page that needs work, and pointed out specific components on that page that we could potentially tackle. The lead was especially receptive of our concerns, and reassured us that if the experience in working with open source is not easy, then he has "failed us and [has not] been considerate of the support [we] need." 

We have our own group chat, where we can freely bother the lead. Apparently, he works full time for the Open Library, so there is less guilt on our end. I'm satisfied with our progress so far, and I hope to overcome my imposter syndrome. The codebase is still intimidating, and the information on the one-hour video is dense, but at least we have the support of various people at Open Library now.


