---
layout: post
title: "Week 6 - Tidepool and the philosophy of open source"
---

## Christopher Snider 

Snider was a guest speaker that I could more relate to, as the technology involved is closer to my experiences. The fact that he is not well-versed in the field of computer science or engineering was also an interesting addition. As a result, we had a much less technical conversation that focused more on the goals and achievements of Tidepool. 

While I don't know much about diabetes, there are a few people in my life who I know have it. High school was the first time I was introduced to diabetes. A good friend of mine would always monitor his glucose levels after every meal and after every physical activity. Sometimes, I would see him prick himself to collect samples. Due to my unfamiliarity, I was a bit intrigued as to why he would always carry around a device. The device that he would carry around was probably a CGM (Continuous Glucose Monitor). After some time, I got used to seeing him monitor his glucose levels every day in advisory and after gym class, and it seems like this is just part of his daily routine. 

After listening to Snider, who would obviously advocate for the product he's working for, I wonder if my mother would benefit from a similar product. It is certainly an upgrade from the traditional means of recording and visualizing data; the philosophy that [diabetes] data should be [accessible, actionable, and meaningful](https://www.tidepool.org/about) is also one that resonates with patients who wish to have more control over their health. The fact that Tidepool is an open-source project also gives users opportunities to have their voices heard. Someone I know lives with Idiopathic Thrombocytopenic Purpura (ITP), which is an extremely rare autoimmune disease characterized by the dangerously low levels of platelets in the blood. With the current technology, she has no means of regularly checking her platelet count; she is completely reliant on the weekly lab tests where she is subject to constant blood withdrawals. People with ITP also have certain foods that they are encouraged to consume or avoid, but she is unable to tell for sure which have tangible impact. It is not until she sustains injuries or the internal bleeding occurs when she would be rushed to the hospital, unfortunately. I hope to see open-source efforts like Tidepool to expand to an even smaller community (which, I understand, is very difficult with the lack of data!) 


--- 

## Open Source's Impact on Communities 

During our class discussion, I strongly agreed with the point that open source provides exposure to those who would not have been involved in tech. For instance, I attended a local high school that was not well-funded, and as a result, we did not have a diverse curriculum to explore our interests. Even yet, I was not fully aware of the concept of open-source until midway through my university career. Parents tend to mold their children to their ideals (or at least, mine did), which is why I appreciate the open-source projects that aim to make local impact: they are solutions to real-world issues and are scalable. The breadth of open-source projects also exposes its participants to various fields, while also introducing them to tech. 

