---
layout: post
title: "Week 11 - Presentations & Open Library" 
---

## Other Groups 

Unfortunately, the bulk of the presentations occurred last week, which was when my groupmates and I were at Open Library's meeting! While the expectation for each presentation was a little less than five minutes long, there seemed to be so much discussion that a second day was needed. When we returned to the classroom, the class was up to Group 9 (Blender), where they also tackled user experience issues. Since Blender is a product that relies on visual feedback to produce results, focusing on these issues would make sense. I am impressed with the [issues](https://github.com/ossd-sp22/wiki/wiki/Group-9,-Blender#april-18-meeting) that they have attempted to taken up, as I would be intimidated to choose them myself since they seem ambitious! A missing hotkey seems like a simple, essential necessity, doesn't it? Maybe if I understood the codebase in detail and was more comfortable with C... (which I don't have plans to). 

There is a general consensus that evaluations have to be made before committing to an issue, as many of us discover that we do not have the capability to resolve them within a limited time frame. As a result, many of us have chosen smaller, sometimes less critical, issues. I think this is a good introduction to experience the full workflow of open source development, as it's better to submit a PR for an issue we think is "miniscule" than it is to spend weeks ruminating on an overly-ambituous task with little progress. So, to see other groups dial down the difficulty of their issues is reassuring!

## Open Library

My first [PR](https://github.com/internetarchive/openlibrary/pull/6451) was merged! I understimated the amount of time setting up and testing would take; Open Library had their own procedures to test front-end changes. Thankfully, the project leader, Mek, provided additional resources on top of the existing documentation to personally guide us through our tasks. As mentioned in our presentation, Mek intended on uploading a 5-10 minute introduction, which turned into an hour-long video. Now, I am working on a [feature](https://github.com/internetarchive/openlibrary/issues/6054#issuecomment-1106822620) with other students by providing mockups of potential designs. These will be discussed in the next meeting. I've also been asked to tackle [another issue](https://github.com/internetarchive/openlibrary/issues/6462#issuecomment-1105497999), but I am still waiting on Mek's response on Slack for clarification (where the files are located for this issue, whether they're looking for more mockups or code). 

Michelle's PR was also merged! Chloe finished her translations and submitted a PR! In fact, we made it on Open Library's recent [release documentation](https://github.com/internetarchive/openlibrary/releases/tag/deploy-2022-04-21). I'm very proud of our progress so far, and I am thankful for the Open Library community. They have been so supportive of our goals, and so understanding of our concerns with contributing to open source. The fact that there are students abroad who also choose Open Library also shows the reach that the organization has. Libraries will always be an essential part of one's education, whether it be academic or not, and contributing to this project has only exemplified my passion and interest for libraries. 
