---
layout: post
title: "Week 8 - Red Hat and OpenLibrary"
---

## Red Hat with Tom Hallaway 

Bringing in a guest speaker who is involved in the entrepreneurship of open-source software provided us with more insight on the value of open-source. Most of the information from the slides were mentioned from our previous classes, but hearing from someone whose profession is to advocate for it makes it feel more realistic. The fact that large corporations use open-source projects drives home the point that building on existing knowledge is more efficient. When Tom mentioned that customers care about open source, I was not quite sure as to what he meant. Is open-source really a necessity, or a dealbreaker? Luckily, he included a [report](https://www.redhat.com/en/resources/state-of-enterprise-open-source-report-2022) in one of his slides that discusses the role of open-source in enterprise. 

The report interviewed with 
* 1296 IT leaders worldwide
  - 150 from English-speaking Asia Pacific 
  - 448 from Europe, Middle East, and Africa 
  - 330 from Latin America

It summarizes the top reasons why enterprise open source vendors are preferred: 

1. They are familiar with open source processes (49%)
2. They help sustain health communities 
3. They can influence the development of features that we need (48%)
4. They are going to be more effective if I face technical challenges (46%)

From these statistics, we can see the importance of open-source philosophies. In fact, the report mentions 

> given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow 

which is one of the points discussed in ["The Cathedral and the Bazaar."](http://www.catb.org/~esr/writings/cathedral-bazaar/cathedral-bazaar/ar01s04.html). Perhaps common people have already thought of solutions for common problems, which is who companies are selling their products to: people outside of their organization.

While I am no entrepreneur, I appreciated the different perspective. 

## Open Library 

Over the weekend, my teammates and I set up an online meeting to prepare our environment and submit interest forms to the organization. We built the Docker images and successfully started the app locally. We are planning on contributing in various roles: Experience Designer/Engineer, Accessibility, and Backend Engineer. 

I may be leaning towards the first two, as they align with my skills (JavaScript and UX).