---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Introduction to Open Source 
---

## Initial Impressions about Open Source 

My first exposure to open source development was, ironically, when I had little-to-no knowledge about the field of Computer Science. I was a sophomore in high school, the year of 2016. Despite my indifference towards Computer Science, one of my friends would advocate for the subject due to its limitless possibilities. Upon searching the keyword `open source`, I was able to find the conversation we had: 


> **Him**: This is ****ing terrifying. I learned about this like a week ago: _insert link here_
> 
> Evercookie is a JavaScript-based application created by Samy Kamkar which produces zombie cookies in a web browser that are intentionally difficult to delete.
> 
> **Me**: There's even a download??? LOL
> 
> **Him**: It's open source 
> 
> **Me**: What's open source and how did you find this lol
>
> **Him**: Open source is "open to everyone" and "everyone can see how it works and can help either develop or fix it" 
>
> and I'm interested in this stuff so I get by 
> 
> *provides another example...*
> 
> **Me**: You should try that :D 
>
> **Him**: Nah I'm not well-versed enough to do that
> 
> I can't grasp most of what they're doing but I'm learning

Hence, I was ingrained with the definition that, well, open source was made for everyone... 

(￣ω￣;)

Sometimes, I would be sent links to open source projects related to my hobbies. Thinking back, this philosophy served as a creative outlet for ordinary citizens to implement features that would improve our quality of life.

I had no idea that licences and copyrights were involved. 

---
## Open vs Closed Source

After learning much more about open source during the first week, I have determined that the decision to make a project open or closed is a matter of the organization's goals. To use an analogy, open source functions similarly to a library, where knowledge is public and accessible to the mass. It fundamentally promotes _intellectual freedom_. The American Library Association (ALA) defines this as 

> the right of every individual to both seek and receive information from all points of view without restriction. It provides for free access to all expressions of ideas through which any and all sides of a question, cause or movement may be explored.

Therefore, those who believe that information should not be withheld and its exposure would protect intellectual freedom would opt for open source, where everyone has the potential to contribute their knowledge. In turn, this contribution would result in a product that benefits the public. Truly, open source is where people gather their brains (◐ω◑ ) 

As for closed source, it functions similarly to a government building, where knowledge is only accessible to a select group. Monetary incentives become prevalent, and there is a greater burden of responsibility for those developing the code. Not to say that not sharing code is selfish, but a private organization probably does not want to pay their employees just so that outsiders can easily reuse, or even steal, their resources. Therefore, at the expense of public collaboration, closed source projects benefit from security and narrower scope, where a select group of people have high expertise on the software. 

While open source projects have their own advantages, the drawbacks are a result of their publicity. Since the codebase is easily accessible, others can use it as a foundation to develop malicious software. Even worse, someone could even begin with it -- just like *Evercookie*, which was mentioned at the very beginning of this week's post. Receiving assistance may also not be straightforward due to the disconnected collaborators. 

---
## Why this class?
After working for the university library for the past two years as a student worker, I realized that working for public organizations, like schools and libraries, is fulfilling. I've always appreciated what libraries had to offer throughout my lifetime, and would like to use the knowledge that I've accumulated to reciprocate. I wonder if I could contribute to our library's repository... we will see!

---
## Frequently-used Open Source Projects 

* **Visual Studio Code**: Using this to write this markdown file as of this moment! I also use many extensions that increase my productivity when doing work. 
* [**Tachiyomi**](https://github.com/tachiyomiorg): manga reader for Android.
* [**OBS Project**](https://github.com/obsproject): livestreaming and screen-recording software. I stream, sometimes! 
* **Discord bots**: Every server integrates bots for moderation, or for specific features! 