---
layout: post
title: "Week 5 - OpenMRS Evaluation & Film Reflections"
---

## Thoughts about [OpenMRS](https://openmrs.org/)

My group was assigned OpenMRS, an open-source medical record platform. Unfortunately, I am in no way well-versed in the medical field, so my insight on this organization will be limited to a junior developer's perspective. 

Their website is user-friendly; I can easily navigate the page to find the information needed to answer the essential questions provided in the activity. They have a demo and download provided for prospective OpenMRS users; they have links to their [community platforms](https://openmrs.org/community/) and [wiki](https://openmrs.org/documentation/) for the general audience; and various [resources for prospective contributors](https://openmrs.org/developers/) ranging from their repository, issue tracker, code tester, and add-ons. 

However, despite being able to find these resources easily, not much guidance is provided. For instance, on their [Get Involved](https://openmrs.org/get-involved/) page, there is this section: 

 **Do you like to organize?** 
 * Organize community meetings
 * Organize Conferences and big events 
 * Take care of programs like GSOC, GSOD 

My groupmate and I thought these were vague instructions. Where can people begin to organize these meetings? Is there a protocol that needs to be followed to have this reponsibility? Hopefully, there are guidelines within their platforms specified under their [Community Page](https://openmrs.org/community/).

Unfortunately, we also found a comment on a JIRA issue (will update this post with the link, when found) where someone said something along the lines of:

> You have not responded to the issue for 28 days. Remember that anyone can take the issue away from you if you do not respond.

No one stepped in to reprimand the behavior. (; ･`д･´)​

All in all, OpenMRS may not be beginner-friendly, especially for non-medical users: the first step to contribute is apparent, but the subsequent ones are not. 

---

## Thoughts about the Short Films 

As I was watching through the list of open-source short films, I found an insightful quote: 

> "People want everything to be private until they're sick. And then when they're sick, they want nothing to be private, but they want everything to be out there so that they can get the best care that they can get."
>   
> – [Tom Delbanco, Co-founder of OpenNotes](https://www.redhat.com/en/open-source-stories/common-connections/healthcare-made-human)

I can relate to this, as I have had family members who have contracted COVID-19, but have not informed anyone until they have been hospitalized (and have no choice but to contact close relatives). At least in Chinese culture, sickness is not simply a physical detriment, it also extends psychologically: the sick do not want to inconvenience others and quietly wait until the moment passes, parents will have this notion that their children will not be able to find a partner and start a family of their own, and other worries. 

The quote is ironic, but holds true for many people who are aware of the fact that they may have symptoms. They remain silent in order to continue with their daily activities at the expense of others. 

Aside from this, I also found [Aquaponics](https://wiki.opensourceecology.org/wiki/Aquaponics), a cute open-source project that utilizes fish to promote plant growth. Apparently, it is supposed to be a farming alternative for people who do not have much land. I would also want to introduce this technology to my parents, who grow their own vegetables and fruits!




